### Chapter 1: Reliable, Scalable, and Maintainable

#### 1.1 Thinking About Data Systems



#### 1.2 Reliability

- performs the function as expected.
- can tolerate mistakes, or using in unexpected ways.
- good enough performance.
- prvents unauthorized access and abuse.

continuing to work correctly, even when things go wrong.



It only makes sense to talk about tolerating *certain types* of faults



It is usually best to design fault-tolerance mechanisms that prevent faults from causing failures.



faults with no cure, such as security matters.



##### Hardware Errors

- redundancy of hardware components.
- systems that can tolerate the loss of entire machines, by using software fault-tolerance techniques in addition to hardware redundancy.



##### Softwre Errors



##### Human Errors

- design system in a way that minimizes opportunities fo error.
- decouples the places where people make the most mistakes from the places where they can cause failures.
- test thoroghly at all levels.
- allow quick and easy recovery from human errors.
- setup detailed and clear monitoring.
- implement good managerment practices and training.



##### How Important Is Reliability

#### 1.3 Scalability

##### Describing Load

Twitter home timeline



##### Describing Performance

- measurements
  - increasing a load parameter while keeping system resource unchanged, how is the performance affected.
  - how much do you need to increase the resources if you want to keep performance unchanged when increase a load parameter



- percentiles



##### Approaches for Coping with Load

- scale up vs. scale out
- the architecture of systems that operate at large scale is usually highly specific to the application
  - built around assumptions of load parameters



#### 1.4 Maintainability

legacy systems

three design principles:

1. Operability
2. Simplicity
3. Evolvability



##### Operability: Making Life Easy for Operations



##### Simplicity: Managing Complexity

- accidental complexity: is not inherent in the problem that the software solves, but arise only from the implementation.
- abstrction: best tools for removing accidental complexity



##### Evolvability: Making Change Easy



#### 1.5 Summary

