### Chapter 2. Data Models and Query Language

#### 2.1 Relational Model Versus Document Model



##### The Birth of NoSQL



##### The Object-Relation Mismatch



##### Many-to-One and Many-to-Many Relationships

Anything that is meaningful to humans may need to change sometime in the future, and if that information is duplicated, all the redundant  copies need to be updated. That icurs write overheads, and risks inconsistencies. Removing such duplications is the key idea behind *nomarlization* in databases.



Many-to-one relationships don't fit into the document model.



##### Are Document Database Repeating History?

###### The network model

- a record could have multiple parents.
- links between records like pointers in a programming language.
- the only way of accessing a record is to follow a path from a root record, called access path
- access path 难以维护



###### The relational model



###### Comparison to document databases



##### Relation Versus Document Databases Today

relationships vs schema

It depends on the relationships that exist between data items to say which data model leads to simpler application code.



###### Schema flexibility in the document model

schemaless -> schema-on-read



###### Data locality for queries



###### Convergence of document and realional databases



#### 2.2 Query Languages for Data

imperative vs declarative

- imperative: 给出行为
- declarative: 给出申明



##### Declarative Queries on the Web

 css & xpath



##### MapReduce Querying



#### 2.3 Graph-like Data Models

##### Property Graphs

vertex:

- a unique identifier
- a set of outgoing edges
- a set of incoming edges
- a collection of properties



edge:

- a unique identifier
- tail vertex
- head vertex
- a label to describe the kind of relationship between the two vertices
- a collection of properties



##### The Cypher Query Language

a declarative query language for property graphs, created for the Neo4j database.



##### Graph Queries in SQL

difficulty: you may need to traverse a variable number of edges before you find the vertex you're looking for — that is, the number of joins is not fixed in advance.



##### Triple-Stores and SPARQL

all information is stored in the form of three-part statements: subject, predicate, object.

the object is one of two things:

1. a value in a primitive datatype;
2. another vertex in the graph.



###### The semantic web



###### The RDF data model



###### The SPARQL query language

is a query language for triple-stores using the RDF data model



##### The Foundation: Datalog



#### 2.4 Summary

three models: relational, document, graph



data

- being represented as one big tree

  wasn't good for representing many-to-many relations;

- relational model

  some application don't fit well in relational model

- nonrelational `NoSQL`

  two main direction:

  1. Document databases

     data comes in self-contained documents,

     relationships between one document and another are rare

  2. Graph database

     anything is potentially related to everything

